---
layout: post
title: a dream
---
As I dozed off last night, I had a realization about my state of [Weltanschauung](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/weltanschauung) and a place where it was unhealthy. As a child, whenever I saw someone on tv being praised, a celebrity perhaps, I thought "I could be like them, or better when I grow up. They have had more time than me." A version of this thought has persisted in me. In law school, seeing friends on Facebook visiting exotic locations I thought, "I could be there if I had more money or were less responsible." Of wealthy entrepeneurs, Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg I thought "they have had more experience, or have sold their souls, and what is their true contribution? They are no greater than I." The same could be said of successful lawyers and businessmen and mathematicians and artists. Those less successful than the greatest, well "they aren't even as good as the best, what a waste."

I have not found a place for adequate self perception over the past 3 or 4 years, and the gap of years has closed where age or experience is an excuse. The removal of this crutch of an excuse was not without pain, but I had a moment of clarity last night. I realized those experiences that I bridged to my life with jealous logic, that they were real and amazing pieces of humanity. Those places I will never go, I can be glad to know that someone else did, and join in their experience through love rather than jealousy.

The dream was a wonderful experience where my imagination took me to the role of an egoless viewer. 

I believe this feeling is also known in the programming world as "imposter syndrome." It is born of insecurity and the thought that "If I am not the best, what am I?" In studying, it slows down my learning because I may hesitate to implement something one way for fear of it looking silly. It may be that I procrastinate on getting involved with a side project because I know there is someone better working on the same problem.

This reaction though, is "just your ego, fucking with you." Ego loves attention, even if it is negative. We often hear about people with "overblown" or "huuuuge" egos, in that they present themselves grandiosely. There are more unhealthy egos around, I am sure, like mine than those like Donald Trump's. Those that manifest their need for attention as pain, jealousy, lack of discipline, self hatred, and self doubt. Without ego, who is jealous? who is indulging? who is doubting? I would offer advice for attaining this feeling, but honestly I had never felt that kind of acceptance that not all experiences could belong directly to my ego. In the past when I had been humbled, I would use that experience as "fight or flight", spite fueled learning and working ( often effective, actually ), or just going the other direction. Never before acceptance, and appreciation for the beauty in another's experience.
